docs/authoring.md, before:

# Authoring suites

Use YAML to describe tests. The repo ships `schemas/suite.schema.json` for validation and completions.

Cheatsheets
- [Suite cheatsheet](../docs/cheatsheets/suite.cheatsheet.md)
- [Assertions cheatsheet](../docs/cheatsheets/assertions.cheatsheet.md)

## VS Code + Copilot setup

Prereqs
- Install the YAML extension (ms-azuretools.vscode-yaml) for validation/completions.
- Open this repo (or copy `schemas/` and `.copilot/` into your project).

Schema binding
- This repo ships `.vscode/settings.json` that maps `schemas/suite.schema.json` to common `*.yaml` locations.
- For your own workspace, add:

```jsonc
"yaml.schemas": {
  "./schemas/suite.schema.json": [
    "suite.yaml",
    "suites/**/*.yaml",
    "**/hydreq*.yaml"
  ]
}
```

Authoring flow
1) Open your suite YAML next to `.copilot/prompts/suite.prompts.md` so Copilot reads project idioms.
  - `scripts/pr-summary.sh path/to/report.json`
- `scripts/local-ci.sh` will run formatting, tests, examples, and then write `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` using the most recent JSON report.
- To automatically post that summary as a PR comment, set `GH_PR_REF` to the PR number or URL and ensure `gh` CLI is installed and authenticated.

Batch runs (end users and contributors)
- Run many suites and create both batch and latest summaries:
	- `scripts/run-suites.sh` (defaults to `testdata/*.yaml`)
	- or `scripts/run-suites.sh suites/*.yaml other/*.yaml`

 - Post a PR comment (requires gh):
   - `scripts/post-pr-summary.sh <pr-number-or-url> path/to/report.json`
 - Compare two report JSONs:
   - `scripts/compare-reports.sh old.json new.json`

Local CI helper
- `scripts/local-ci.sh` will run formatting, tests, examples, and then write `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` using the most recent JSON report.
- To automatically post that summary as a PR comment, set `GH_PR_REF` to the PR number or URL and ensure `gh` CLI is installed and authenticated.

Batch runs (end users and contributors)
- Run many suites and create both batch and latest summaries:
  - `scripts/run-suites.sh` (defaults to `testdata/*.yaml`)
  - or `scripts/run-suites.sh suites/*.yaml other/*.yaml`
- Outputs:
  - Batch summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY_ALL.md`
  - Latest suite summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` (+ suggestions)
	- Batch summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY_ALL.md`
	- Latest suite summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` (+ suggestions)
=======
  - `scripts/pr-summary.sh path/to/report.json`
- Get a checklist of suggested assertions (starter block):
  - `scripts/suggest-assertions.sh <reports-dir>` (uses latest `*.json`)
 - Post a PR comment (requires gh):
   - `scripts/post-pr-summary.sh <pr-number-or-url> path/to/report.json`
 - Compare two report JSONs:
   - `scripts/compare-reports.sh old.json new.json`

Tips
- Indentation matters for `request.body`. Ensure nested fields are under `body:`.
- Use `stage` for coarse ordering; `dependsOn` for precise DAGs.
- Prefer matrix to avoid duplicative tests; reuse `${var}` in request/assert.
>>>>>>> fcde578 (docs: VS Code + Copilot usage guide; README notes on run task and report scripts (#4))

## Variables and interpolation
- `${ENV:VAR}` reads environment variables.
- Extracted vars can be reused in later tests or stages.

## Data generators
- `${FAKE:uuid}` — random UUID v4
- `${EMAIL}` — random email like `qa-<hex>@example.com`
- `${NOW:<layout>}` — Go time layout; e.g., `${NOW:2006-01-02}`
- `${NOW+/-offset:<layout>}` — offset by s/m/h/d/w; e.g., `${NOW+1d:2006-01-02}`
- `${RANDINT:min:max}` — random integer in [min, max]

## Matrix expansion
Define a `matrix:` with arrays to generate cartesian combinations. Each combo becomes a concrete test.

## Tags
Add `tags: [smoke, slow]` per test and filter with `--tags`.

## YAML tips

- Use spaces, not tabs. The Web UI editor auto-converts tabs to spaces and the validator will hint when tabs are detected.
- Quote strings that look like booleans or numbers (e.g., "on", "yes", "00123") to avoid unintended type coercion.
- Prefer minimal YAML: omit empty arrays/objects; unset fields are dropped on save.

## JSONPath (gjson) tips

- Use dot notation (`data.items.0.id`) or bracket for special keys (`data["x-y"].id`).
- For arrays, `@this` and functions like `#` (length) are supported by gjson; validate extract paths via Quick Run.

## Validation and not-runnable

Validate from the command line:

```
go build -o bin/validate ./cmd/validate
./bin/validate -dir testdata -schema schemas/suite.schema.json
```

Tip: Run the validator before committing or wire it into pre‑commit hooks.

Preflight: baseUrl vs path URLs

- If your tests use path-only URLs (e.g., `/anything`, `/status/200`), set `suite.baseUrl` (it can be `${ENV:HTTPBIN_BASE_URL}`) so the CLI can resolve requests. Otherwise the suite is marked not‑runnable and will not execute.

- Schema validation catches shape issues (unknown fields, wrong types) early.
- Engine preflight marks suites as not runnable when core conditions are missing (e.g., empty baseUrl with path-only URLs). Such suites will be listed under Not Run in batch reports and exit the CLI with code 2 when selected directly.

Commit message:

feat: batch run scripts, VS Code task guard, docs, changelog; package scripts in release

docs/authoring.md, after:

# Authoring suites

Use YAML to describe tests. The repo ships `schemas/suite.schema.json` for validation and completions.

Cheatsheets
- [Suite cheatsheet](../docs/cheatsheets/suite.cheatsheet.md)
- [Assertions cheatsheet](../docs/cheatsheets/assertions.cheatsheet.md)

## VS Code + Copilot setup

Prereqs
- Install the YAML extension (ms-azuretools.vscode-yaml) for validation/completions.
- Open this repo (or copy `schemas/` and `.copilot/` into your project).

Schema binding
- This repo ships `.vscode/settings.json` that maps `schemas/suite.schema.json` to common `*.yaml` locations.
- For your own workspace, add:

```jsonc
"yaml.schemas": {
  "./schemas/suite.schema.json": [
    "suite.yaml",
    "suites/**/*.yaml",
    "**/hydreq*.yaml"
  ]
}
```

Authoring flow
1) Open your suite YAML next to `.copilot/prompts/suite.prompts.md` so Copilot reads project idioms.
  - `scripts/pr-summary.sh path/to/report.json`
- `scripts/local-ci.sh` will run formatting, tests, examples, and then write `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` using the most recent JSON report.
- To automatically post that summary as a PR comment, set `GH_PR_REF` to the PR number or URL and ensure `gh` CLI is installed and authenticated.

Batch runs (end users and contributors)
- Run many suites and create both batch and latest summaries:
	- `scripts/run-suites.sh` (defaults to `testdata/*.yaml`)
	- or `scripts/run-suites.sh suites/*.yaml other/*.yaml`

 - Post a PR comment (requires gh):
   - `scripts/post-pr-summary.sh <pr-number-or-url> path/to/report.json`
 - Compare two report JSONs:
   - `scripts/compare-reports.sh old.json new.json`

Local CI helper
- `scripts/local-ci.sh` will run formatting, tests, examples, and then write `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` using the most recent JSON report.
- To automatically post that summary as a PR comment, set `GH_PR_REF` to the PR number or URL and ensure `gh` CLI is installed and authenticated.

Batch runs (end users and contributors)
- Run many suites and create both batch and latest summaries:
  - `scripts/run-suites.sh` (defaults to `testdata/*.yaml`)
  - or `scripts/run-suites.sh suites/*.yaml other/*.yaml`
- Outputs:
  - Batch summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY_ALL.md`
  - Latest suite summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` (+ suggestions)
	- Batch summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY_ALL.md`
	- Latest suite summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` (+ suggestions)
=======
  - `scripts/pr-summary.sh path/to/report.json`
- Get a checklist of suggested assertions (starter block):
  - `scripts/suggest-assertions.sh <reports-dir>` (uses latest `*.json`)
 - Post a PR comment (requires gh):
   - `scripts/post-pr-summary.sh <pr-number-or-url> path/to/report.json`
 - Compare two report JSONs:
   - `scripts/compare-reports.sh old.json new.json`

Local CI helper
- `scripts/local-ci.sh` will run formatting, tests, examples, and then write `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` using the most recent JSON report.
- To automatically post that summary as a PR comment, set `GH_PR_REF` to the PR number or URL and ensure `gh` CLI is installed and authenticated.

Batch runs (end users and contributors)
- Run many suites and create both batch and latest summaries:
  - `scripts/run-suites.sh` (defaults to `testdata/*.yaml`)
  - or `scripts/run-suites.sh suites/*.yaml other/*.yaml`
- Outputs:
  - Batch summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY_ALL.md`
  - Latest suite summary: `reports/PR_SUMMARY.md` (+ suggestions)

Tips
- Indentation matters for `request.body`. Ensure nested fields are under `body:`.
- Use `stage` for coarse ordering; `dependsOn` for precise DAGs.
- Prefer matrix to avoid duplicative tests; reuse `${var}` in request/assert.
>>>>>>> fcde578 (docs: VS Code + Copilot usage guide; README notes on run task and report scripts (#4))

## Variables and interpolation
- `${ENV:VAR}` reads environment variables.
- Extracted vars can be reused in later tests or stages.

## Data generators
- `${FAKE:uuid}` — random UUID v4
- `${EMAIL}` — random email like `qa-<hex>@example.com`
- `${NOW:<layout>}` — Go time layout; e.g., `${NOW:2006-01-02}`
- `${NOW+/-offset:<layout>}` — offset by s/m/h/d/w; e.g., `${NOW+1d:2006-01-02}`
- `${RANDINT:min:max}` — random integer in [min, max]

## Matrix expansion
Define a `matrix:` with arrays to generate cartesian combinations. Each combo becomes a concrete test.

## Tags
Add `tags: [smoke, slow]` per test and filter with `--tags`.

## YAML tips

- Use spaces, not tabs. The Web UI editor auto-converts tabs to spaces and the validator will hint when tabs are detected.
- Quote strings that look like booleans or numbers (e.g., "on", "yes", "00123") to avoid unintended type coercion.
- Prefer minimal YAML: omit empty arrays/objects; unset fields are dropped on save.

## JSONPath (gjson) tips

- Use dot notation (`data.items.0.id`) or bracket for special keys (`data["x-y"].id`).
- For arrays, `@this` and functions like `#` (length) are supported by gjson; validate extract paths via Quick Run.

## Validation and not-runnable

Validate from the command line:

```
go build -o bin/validate ./cmd/validate
./bin/validate -dir testdata -schema schemas/suite.schema.json
```

Tip: Run the validator before committing or wire it into pre‑commit hooks.

Preflight: baseUrl vs path URLs

- If your tests use path-only URLs (e.g., `/anything`, `/status/200`), set `suite.baseUrl` (it can be `${ENV:HTTPBIN_BASE_URL}`) so the CLI can resolve requests. Otherwise the suite is marked not‑runnable and will not execute.

- Schema validation catches shape issues (unknown fields, wrong types) early.
- Engine preflight marks suites as not runnable when core conditions are missing (e.g., empty baseUrl with path-only URLs). Such suites will be listed under Not Run in batch reports and exit the CLI with code 2 when selected directly.
