docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting started

HydReq is a lightweight API test runner with a Web UI and CLI. Author tests in YAML and run them locally or in CI.

## Install
- Download a prebuilt binary from Releases and unzip, or
- Build from source:
  - `go install github.com/DrWeltschmerz/HydReq/cmd/hydreq@latest`
  - or `go build -o bin/hydreq ./cmd/hydreq`

## Quick start (GUI)
1) Run `hydreq` with no args.
2) Browser opens at http://127.0.0.1:8787.
3) Select suites from `testdata`, set Workers, optionally provide KEY=VALUE env overrides, click Run.

## Quick start (CLI)
Run all suites (default):
```
./hydreq run --workers 4 -v
```
Run a suite:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml --workers 4 -v
```
Add reports:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml \
  --report-json report.json \
  --report-junit report.xml \
  --report-html report.html
```

Or generate a full set (JSON/JUnit/HTML) plus run-level artifacts in a directory:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml --report-dir reports
```

Run all suites and auto-generate all report types (default names):
```
./hydreq run --report-dir reports
```
This writes per-suite `<suite>-<timestamp>.{json,xml,html}` and a batch `run-<timestamp>.{json,xml,html}`. You don’t need to pass individual `--report-*` flags when using `--report-dir`.

Commit message:

Feat/reports gui (#19)
* docs: update feature roadmap and internal features catalog

- Update roadmap.md with compiled feature list and prioritization
- Add comprehensive features catalog to docs/internal/Features.md
- Include new feature suggestions for API mocking, contract testing, and plugin architecture
- Prepare foundation for UI modernization and advanced feature development

* ui improvements

* 0.3.5

* fix

* feat: stabilize E2E tests for Web UI suite selection and runner output

- Simplify expand.spec.js to use localStorage for suite selection
- Remove fragile EventSource interception
- Wait for visible runner output in results area
- Update selection count and UI refresh logic

* webui: add debug logging to refresh() to diagnose suites rendering

* 1

* .

* runner ready

* editor fixed

* .

* editor improvements.

* .

* editor updates

* .

* further updates. Added  .env file support

* further ui improvements.

* some more ui refactors and improvements

* cleanup

* some more ux/ui fixes and improvements

* added run with stages, further refactors

* moooore

* update finished. Prepared required docs for complete ui refactor

* prepared for releae

* removed unused file

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting started

HydReq is a lightweight API test runner with a Web UI and CLI. Author tests in YAML and run them locally or in CI.

## Install
- Download a prebuilt binary from Releases and unzip, or
- Build from source:
  - `go install github.com/DrWeltschmerz/HydReq/cmd/hydreq@latest`
  - or `go build -o bin/hydreq ./cmd/hydreq`

## Quick start (GUI)
1) Run `hydreq` with no args.
2) Browser opens at http://127.0.0.1:8787.
3) Select suites from `testdata`, set Workers, optionally provide KEY=VALUE env overrides, click Run. Active tags and env overrides appear as small pills next to Batch progress.

## Quick start (CLI)
Run all suites (default):
```
./hydreq run --workers 4 -v
```
Run a suite:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml --workers 4 -v
```
Add reports:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml \
  --report-json report.json \
  --report-junit report.xml \
  --report-html report.html
```

Or generate a full set (JSON/JUnit/HTML) plus run-level artifacts in a directory:
```
./hydreq run -f testdata/example.yaml --report-dir reports
```

Run all suites and auto-generate all report types (default names):
```
./hydreq run --report-dir reports
```
This writes per-suite `<suite>-<timestamp>.{json,xml,html}` and a batch `run-<timestamp>.{json,xml,html}`. You don’t need to pass individual `--report-*` flags when using `--report-dir`.

Notes:
- dependsOn chains are visualized as a single stage (0) to avoid confusing multi-stage bars for DAGs; execution order still honors dependencies.
- Inside the editor’s Quick Run, “with deps” runs the selected test with its dependency chain. “with previous stages” runs all tests from earlier stages before the selected test.
